[OSDOCS-4100] RHOSP - Support IPv6 in the secondary network interface (#53860)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-osp-pod-connections-ipv6.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/network-configuration.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-osp-pod-connections-ipv6_{context}"]
= Enabling IPv6 connectivity to pods on {rh-openstack}

> To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security obviates the need to create allowed address pairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional network that are on different nodes, the port security for the IPv6 port of the server can be disabled. Disabling port security obviates the need to create allowed address pairs for each IPv6 address assigned to Pods and enable traffic on the security group.
```

Author: Some questions about the suggestion. 

1. Is only one additional network allowed per pod? 
2. Must the IPv6 port be disabled, or is it optional? 

At the moment, the PR assumes that the answer to 1 is "no" and the answer to 2 is "yes."

@MaysaMacedo

Reviewer: 1. there can be more additional networks.
2. It was tested with disabling the security to facilitate the user experience. Otherwise the user would need to add one allowed address pair with the ipv6 address of the pod and enable the security group port (AFAIK this other option was not tested).

Author: @MaysaMacedo Given those, I'd edit your suggestion like so:

```suggestion
To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security obviates the need to create allowed address pairs for each IPv6 address that is assigned to pods and enable traffic on the security group.
```
Keeps "networks" plural and states unambiguously that this is the official way to accomplish this.

> To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. By disabling port security, you can add allowed address pairs with an IP and MAC address in the IPv6 port of the server whenever a new pod is created.

Reviewer 2: > By disabling port security, you can add allowed address pairs with an IP and MAC address in the IPv6 port of the server whenever a new pod is created.

Not exactly, the interest of disabling port security in this case is to not have to deal with allowed address pairs at all because it gets in the way. See https://github.com/openshift/installer/pull/6435#discussion_r989177706 for more context.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security prevents the creation of allowed address pairs with IP and MAC addresses on the server's IPv6 port whenever a new pod is created.
```

> To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security prevents the creation of allowed address pairs with IP and MAC addresses on the IPv6 ports of servers whenever a new pod is created.

Reviewer 2: Actually, disabling port security makes it unnecessary to create allowed address pairs (which is difficult to apply, since MAC and IP address might only be known after pod creation).

Author: ```suggestion
To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security obviates the need to create allowed address pairs unnecessary.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes! I again learned a new word.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Only the following IPv6 additional network configurations are supported:

* SLAAC and host-device
* SLAAC and MACVLAN
* DHCP stateless and host-device
* DHCP stateless and MACVLAN
====

.Procedure

* On a command line, enter:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ openstack port set --no-security-group --disable-port-security <compute_ipv6_port>

Reviewer: I would like to double check this step first

Author: @MaysaMacedo How's this going? Would prefer to have this merged by freeze, but can probably buy a day or two if it's important.

Reviewer 2: The command is fine if we explain what it does (remove traffic restriction). It's not really practicable to keep port security knowing that the MAC address and hence IPv6 is generated once the pod starts.

> ----

Reviewer: I would add the following note:

Since traffic is allowed, private addresses are recommended to be used.

@mandre what do you think about adding this NOTE?

Reviewer: maybe we can mention something about private ipv6 addresses as well?

Author: "would," "should," or more like "Traffic restrictions must not be imposed on that port."

Reviewer: this NOTE is to alert about what that command is actually doing

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should highlight that disabling the port security has security implication, so that customers know what the command is doing.

Author: ```suggestion
----
+
IMPORTANT: This command removes security groups from the port and disables port security. Traffic restrictions are removed entirely from the port.  
```

So, something like this?

Reviewer: Yes.

where:

> <compute_ipv6_port>:: Specifies the IPv6 port of the pod.

Reviewer: compute and worker is the same thing

> <compute_ipv6_port>:: Specifies the IPv6 port of the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<compute_ipv6_port>:: Specifies the IPv6 port of the compute Server.
```

> <compute_ipv6_port>:: Specifies the IPv6 port of the pod.

Author: ```suggestion
<compute_ipv6_port>:: Specifies the IPv6 port of the compute server.
```

(We only capitalize "Operator" in normal running text.)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/network-configuration.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-osp-pod-connections-ipv6_{context}"]
= Enabling IPv6 connectivity to pods on {rh-openstack}

> To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security obviates the need to create allowed address pairs for each IPv6 address that is assigned to pods and enable traffic on the security group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable IPv6 connectivity between pods that have additional networks that are on different nodes, disable port security for the IPv6 port of the server. Disabling port security obviates the need to create allowed address pairs for each IPv6 address that is assigned to pods and enables traffic on the security group.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
Only the following IPv6 additional network configurations are supported:

* SLAAC and host-device
* SLAAC and MACVLAN
* DHCP stateless and host-device
* DHCP stateless and MACVLAN
====

.Procedure

> * On a command line, enter:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* On a command line, enter the following command:
```
